[FLINK-17829][docs][jdbc] Add documentation for the new JDBC connector. (#12487)
apache/flink: docs/dev/table/connectors/jdbc.md

---
title: "JDBC SQL Connector"
nav-title: JDBC
nav-parent_id: sql-connectors
nav-pos: 9
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

<span class="label label-primary">Scan Source: Bounded</span>

> <span class="label label-primary">Lookup Source: Async Mode</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<span class="label label-primary">Lookup Source: Sync Mode</span>
```

<span class="label label-primary">Sink: Batch</span>

> <span class="label label-primary">Sink: Streaming Upsert Mode</span>

Reviewer: "Sink: Streaming"? I think JDBC also support insert-only mode if primary key is not defined?

{% if site.is_stable %}

| Maven dependency                                          | SQL Client JAR         |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------|
| `flink-connector-jdbc{{site.scala_version_suffix}}`     | [Download](https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc{{site.scala_version_suffix}}/{{site.version}}/flink-connector-hbase{{site.scala_version_suffix}}-{{site.version}}.jar) |

{% else %}

The dependency table is only available for stable releases.

{% endif %}

How to create a JDBC table
----------------

The JDBC table can be defined as follows:

<div class="codetabs" markdown="1">
<div data-lang="SQL" markdown="1">
{% highlight sql %}
CREATE TABLE MyUserTable (
  a INT,
  b BIGINT,
  c DOUBLE,
  d STRING,
  e BOOLEAN,
  PRIMARY KEY (a, b) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
   'connector'='jdbc',
   'url'='jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/flink-test',
   'table-name'='jdbc_table_name'
)

{% endhighlight %}
</div>
</div>

> <span class="label label-danger">Attention</span> Flink supports define primary key no longer extracts valid keys.

Reviewer: What does this mean? Can this be removed?

      <td>optional</td>
      <td style="word-wrap: break-word;">(none)</td>
      <td>Integer</td>
      <td>The max time to live for each rows in lookup cache.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><h5>lookup.max-retries</h5></td>
      <td>optional</td>
      <td style="word-wrap: break-word;">(none)</td>
      <td>Integer</td>
      <td>The max retry times if lookup database failed.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><h5>sink.buffer-flush.max-rows</h5></td>
      <td>optional</td>
      <td style="word-wrap: break-word;">5000</td>
      <td>Integer</td>
      <td>The max size of buffered records before flush.</td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
      <td><h5>sink.buffer-flush.interval</h5></td>
      <td>optional</td>
      <td style="word-wrap: break-word;">(none)</td>
      <td>Duration</td>
      <td>The flush interval mills, over this time, asynchronous threads will flush data.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><h5>sink.max-retries</h5></td>
      <td>optional</td>
      <td style="word-wrap: break-word;">3</td>
      <td>Integer</td>
      <td>The max retry times if writing records to database failed.</td>
    </tr>          
    </tbody>
</table>

Data Type Mapping
----------------

> Flink support connect to several JDBC dialect，the field type mappings between Flink and current supported databases are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flink supports to connect to several relational databases, the field type mappings between Flink and current supported databases are as follows:
```

<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th class="text-left">Flink Data Type</th>
        <th class="text-left">MySQL Type</th>
        <th class="text-left">PostgreSQL Type</th>
        <th class="text-left">Derby Type</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>BOOLEAN</td>
      <td>TINYINT</td>
      <td>BOOLEAN</td>
      <td>BOOLEAN</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TINYINT</td>
      <td>TINYINT</td>
      <td>SMALLINT</td>
      <td>SMALLINT</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>SMALLINT</td>
      <td>SMALLINT</td>
      <td>SMALLINT</td>
      <td>SMALLINT</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>INT</td>
      <td>INT</td>

>       <td>INT</td>

Reviewer: integer?

      <td>INT</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>BIGINT</td>
      <td>BIGINT</td>
      <td>BIGINT</td>
      <td>BIGINT</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>FLOAT</td>
      <td>FLOAT</td>
      <td>REAL</td>
      <td>FLOAT</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>DOUBLE</td>
      <td>DOUBLE</td>
      <td>DOUBLE PRECISION</td>
      <td>DOUBLE PRECISION</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>DECIMAL</td>
      <td>DECIMAL</td>
      <td>DECIMAL</td>
      <td>DECIMAL</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>CHAR</td>
      <td>VARCHAR</td>
      <td>VARCHAR</td>

>       <td>VARCHAR</td>

Reviewer: Not sure about this .

Reviewer: The data type mapping is not fully aligned with this FILP: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-93%3A+JDBC+catalog+and+Postgres+catalog

    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>VARCHAR</td>
      <td>VARCHAR</td>
      <td>VARCHAR</td>
      <td>VARCHAR</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>STRING</td>
      <td>VARCHAR</td>

>       <td>VARCHAR</td>

Reviewer: text?

      <td>VARCHAR</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>DATE</td>
      <td>DATE</td>
      <td>DATE</td>
      <td>DATE</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TIME</td>
      <td>TIME</td>
      <td>TIME</td>
      <td>TIME</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TIMESTAMP</td>
      <td>TIMESTAMP</td>
      <td>TIMESTAMP</td>
      <td>TIMESTAMP</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ARRAY</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>ARRAY</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>BINARY</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>VARBINARY</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
    </tr>    
    <tr>
      <td>MAP/MULTISET</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ROW</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
      <td>Unsupported</td>
    </tr>                     
    </tbody>

> </table>

Reviewer: Could you add links about the types supported by these databases? 
For example, postgres: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/datatype.html
